In this video, we're going to make some updates
to our checkout form to support dependent fields.
So currently we have our credit card form,
we our expiration month and year,
so we've populated that code already,
but now the field should be dependent.
So the values of the month should depend on the year.
Okay, so a bit more details.
So if the current year is selected,
then we should only show the remaining months for the year.
So we should start at the current month and go to month 12,
because this is for credit card expiration dates.
Doesn't make any sense to show a previous month
if you're in the current year.
If it's a future year,
then we'll go ahead and show all of the months, right?
Because it's 2025, or 2028, we can show all of the months
regarding credit card expiration months and years.
Okay, so here's our development process.
So we're going to update our HTML template.
So for the expiration years drop-down list,
we're going to add an event binding for the change event.
So basically, we'll add a trigger.
If they change the year, they would need to do some work.
So that's in step two of updating our checkout component
and adding an event handler.
So what we'll do is we'll read the selected year,
and then we'll update the list of months based
on the selected year.
So in a nutshell, if we're in the current year,
we're going to use the current month to the end, 12.
If we're in a future year,
then we'll give all 12 months, one through 12.
Alrighty, step one of updating the HTML template
for event binding.
So on our form, our formControlName of expirationYear,
we're going to add an event handler here.
So for the change event,
we're going to call the method handleMonthsAndYears.
And then this method will actually define
on our component that TS file.
All right, so here is step two
of updating the checkout component
to add that event handler.
So we'll have this method, handleMonthsAndYears,
we'll get a handle to the creditCardFormGroup,
we'll get the current year
and we'll also read the selected year from the form.
So whatever the user selected in the UE or in the form,
we're going to read that actual year.
And then we'll do a comparison.
If the current year equals the selected year,
then we'll start with the current month.
So we'll set up a variable here for startMonth
and say if current year equals selected year,
startMonth = new Date getMonth + 1.
Remember, everything is zero-based for months.
Else will say the startMonth = 1.
And so then based on this data,
then we can actually use our luv2ShopFormService
to get the credit card months.
So we passing the value of startMonth,
and it'll give us that array of the appropriate data.
And we simply assign it accordingly
inside of our coding here.
So this.creditCardMonths = data.
So the key is here is determining what's the start month,
is it going to be the current month
or we're going to start at month equals one.
Alrighty, so this code looks good.
Let's go ahead and dive into our IDE
and let's write some code.